README for _Introduction to Proof_, an Inquiry-Based approach
by Jim Hefferon, Saint Michael's College


This is a textbook for a Proofs course.  It is appropriate for 
US sophmores.  

The approach is Inquiry-Based, sometimes called Moore Method
or Discovery Method.  This means that the goal is to have students
directly grapple with the material.  The text is a sequence of exercises
with a few definitions and remarks.  Usually the exercises ask for proofs, 
although a few ask for examples.  The class works through the 
material together, talking through what they are learning, sometimes
stumbling around in the dark (the instructor should only lightly guide),
and sometimes triumphantly emerging with an answer.

The material is elementary number theory through the Fundamental Theorem
of Arithmetic, sets through DeMorgan's Laws, functions through inverse
functions, and relations through the connection between equivalence 
relations and partitions. 


LICENSE

This is Free, including the LaTeX source.  You can use it in any way 
that you like.

In particular, instructors can use it in class without cost.  They can
make copies and sell those copies at the bookstore (they may want to 
prorate the cost to pay for their copy).


LATEX

The book is in standard LaTeX.  

Compile it with 
  1) cd asy
     asy -fpdf *.asy
     cd ..
  2) latexmk  (or `pdflatex ibl' twice followed by`pdflatex answers' twice)
  3) cd slides
     pdflatex logic

_Options_

Note that the book comes with answers to all exercises.  They serve two 
purposes: (i) they ensure that when I put no question before a prerequisite,
and (ii) they help me prepare for class.

The book can be printed in a compact form.  See the first few lines of the
ibl.tex source.  In this form it makes six or seven sheets, so it could 
easily be copied and distributed to students on the first day of class, 
instead of going for a bookstore route. 

In the number theory chapter the instructor can compile the book to do 
either Bezout's Lemma or to do an alternative approach that is more 
natural but less slick.  See the boolean in the preamble of ibl.tex .


WEB PAGE

There is more on the book's home page http://joshua.smcvt.edu/proofs .
Information is there on getting an already-made copy so you don't have 
to mess with my LaTeX.

I appreciate bug reports.  I typically save them up and address them in 
a batch but I welcome them any time.  My contact information is below, and 
on the home page.


ENJOY

Jim Hefferon
Saint Michael's College
Colchester, Vermont USA
http://joshua.smcvt.edu/proofs
jhefferon at smcvt dot edu
